# BlackjackProject

# Description
This is my fourth weekend project at Skill Distillery boot camp. This project was do create a full OOP project of black jack including decks, cards, players, dealers, the app and more. When you start the program it will deal cards and allow you to hold or hit. If you or the dealer get 21 on the deal black jack is called and the round ends. You may hit as long as you are not over 21, if you go over 21 bust is called and the round ends. Once the player holds the dealer will flip their second card over and if they are under 17, they will hit. If the dealer is between 17 and 21 they will hold and the score is checked between player and dealer to find the winner or a tie.

# What I learned 
This weeks project hit me hard. Lessons were learned after hours and hours spent spinning my wheels and over complicating my own code to the point it is hard to understand and follow. If I could jump back 2 days and restart this project I would have slowed down and planned out my project more. I struggled to understand how to access data from different classes without breaking my encapsulation. Looking back I needed to create better getters and setters and utilize my parameters and arguments. By the time I realized what I could be doing to make my code not only easier to read but make my life easier, I had dumped my entire weekend struggling to understand what my task at hand was. I could have made better use of my abstract classes, the inherited methods from parent classes and having the child classes override parent classes when needed. Overall I fell short of my own expectations and what I believe I am capable of in my work. I realized the importance of stepping away from the keyboard and giving my mind a chance to rest and coming back refreshed to be able to think clearly and progress easier. My last lesson learned was to not be afraid to research something I am struggling to understand. I could have looked back at previous projects and looked on the internet for examples of what I am trying to do and learn lessons through others rather than hacking up something for hours and still fall short. I look forward to reviewing all the pillars of OOP and redeeming myself in future projects.

# Technologies Used
Java, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Terminal, Atom
